= A Tricky Yank Task Study =

== Task Description ==
{{{
==========
Frankenstein (Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley)
- Highlight Loc. 23-24  | Added on 星期一, 一月 31, 2011, 09:04 下午

nothing contributes so much to tranquillize the mind as a steady
purpose--a point on which the soul may fix its intellectual eye.
==========
Frankenstein (Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley)
- Note Loc. 50  | Added on 星期一, 一月 31, 2011, 09:13 下午

Letter One talks about R. Walton is going to sea, heading to Russia,
saying farewell to his sister Margaret.
==========
Frankenstein (Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley)
- Highlight Loc. 92-93  | Added on 星期一, 一月 31, 2011, 10:08 下午

I have often attributed my attachment to, my passionate enthusiasm
for, the dangerous mysteries of ocean to that production of the most
imaginative of modern poets.
==========
Frankenstein (Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley)
- Note Loc. 99  | Added on 星期一, 一月 31, 2011, 10:11 下午

Letter Two says Walton has engaged some seamen and a vessel, waiting
to embark. He says he needs friends.
}}}

The above is a typical piece in [[Kindle]]'s My_Clipping.txt, which records all notes and highlights taken. The goal is to yank all notes of highlights text at one time.

For example, if I am to yank all my notes in the above text, it should
be:

{{{
Letter One talks about R. Walton is going to sea, heading to Russia,
saying farewell to his sister Margaret.
Letter Two says Walton has engaged some seamen and a vessel, waiting
to embark. He says he needs friends.
}}}

== Solution and Explanation ==
`:let @a=''|g/^=\{10\}\n.*\n- Note\>/'}+;/^=\{10\}/-y A`

* `:let @a=''`
empty register a; see `:h :let`.
* `|`
end the previous Ex command and start a new one; see `h: :bar`.
* `\{10\}`
matching ten times previous pattern. see `:h /\{`.
-------
%title A Tricky Yank Task Study: How to deal with Kindle's Notes and Highlights using Vim - Covi
Last Modified: Feb 05, 2011 22:49:08 
