= About =

This entire Wiki is maintained with several fantastic tools. The primary ones are [http://code.google.com/p/vimwiki/ Vimwiki] and [http://www.vim.org/ Vim]. Some supplementary tools those make life eaiser (or those insidiously move me toward the purely technical end...) are [http://www.dropbox.com/ Dropbox], [http://git-scm.com/ Git], and `cron`.

*Dropbox*. Dropbox enables me to crowd-store my files. Leaving important files solely in your hard drive is a dangerous decision. I lost a laptop along with tons of invaluable files once. Dropbox solves the problem.

*Git and Github*. Generally, after I editted an existed .wiki file or created a new one, I did the following commands to make sure Git tracks my progress and push the files to Github:

    git add . % if I created new files<br />
    git comm 'MESSAGE' % or sometimes git comm 'MESSAGE' --amend<br />
    git push

And boom. My files are instantaneously tracked and uploaded to Github. To upload them to my website server requires several slightly different commands:

    git add and git comm as above<br />
    git push myserver<br />
    (on my server) git reset --hard

There are two major drawbacks with this combination of tools: 

# Github does not correctly regonize Vimwiki format/markup. The effect is if I read my .wiki files on Github, they can look rather messy.
# ~~The manipulation seems tedious. As my knowledge of Git and Linux accumulate, I expect a more elegant solution in the future.~~ 
  - (*OBSOLETE*) Solution: run `ssh user@domain.com ./git` directly in my Git Bash, and the nice little shell script `git` I wrote does the `cd` and `reset --hard` stuff.

Oct 22, 2011 *Update*: There's a better solution than the above: ask *cron* to run `./git` command every 10 minutes. Life saved.

-----
%title About - Covi
Last Modified: October 22, 2011 12:35:18 
