= AS, AD, GPD =
* `GDP = C (consumption) + I (investment) + G (government purchases) + (Exports - Imports)`
* Aggregate damand has the same components of GPD; thus AD = C + I + G + X - M.
* AD up, Y up, MD up.

= Fiscal =
* Spending multiplier: d(expenditure) * spending multiplier = d(real gdp)
* Government spending multiplier
* Tax multiplier = -MPC/MPS.
* Balanced budget multiplier (used when G and T simultaneously increase or decrease by the same amount) = 1.
* Expansionary: G up or T down => AD up => Y up => MD up => r up => I down => Y down.
  * r up => increased demand for the domestic currency for investment purposes => appreciation of the domestic currency => export down, import up => net exports down, partially offsetting the initial expand.
  * final effect: r up, Y up, I down.
  * expansionary fiscal policies will move the economy towards deficit (since G up or T down).

= Monetary =
* Deficit = G - T
* Money Multiplier: total deposit = new deposit * money multiplier.
  * = 1/(required reserve ratio)
* Expansionary: MS up => r down => I up => AD up => Y up => MD up => r up
  * Final effect: r down, Y up, I up.
  * Three ways to expand:
    # decrease the required reserve ratio
    # decrease the discount rate for banks
    # buy bonds (securities)
    
= Monetary + Fiscal =
* Two expansionary policies, for example, can be used together: fiscal(r up, I down) + monetary(r down, I up).

= Formulae and Measures =
* CPI = Total Cost of market basket this year / Total Cost of market basket last year
  * If CPI down, that means the currency appreciates (use less amount of currency to purchase the same basket)
------------
%title Macroeconomics Notes - Covi
Created Date: May 01, 2011 16:43:05<br />
Last Modified: May 10, 2011 21:07:50 
