*TODO: Graphs!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!*

= Uncategorized =
* comparative advantage: the one who has smaller opportunity cost of one product
* returns to scale: refers to changes in output resulting from a proportional change in all inputs (where all inputs increase by a constant factor).
* Demand curves for private goods are added *horizontally*; whereas those for public goods are added *vertically*.
* cross-price elasticity = %d(quantity demanded of X) / %d(price of Y).
  - < 0, compliments; > 0, substitutes.
* Defining characteristic of a capitalistic economy: private ownership & protection of property rights.
* progressive tax: more tax on richer, redistribute income; regressive: more tax on poor.
* Opportunity cost of STH = direct price of STH + implicit cost
* The substitution effect is when the price of one good rises, and the consumer buys more of the cheaper good.
* The income effect is when the consumer cuts back on all goods, not simply the good that has become more expensive.
* estate and gift taxes: if these taxes are high, they help achieve greater income equality.

= Efficiency =
* *efficiency in production*: MP_k / r = MP_l / w (MP = marginal product).
* *distributive efficiency* (maximizing utility): Price_1 / Price_2 = MU_1 / MU_2 (MU = marginal utility)
  * MU_1 / MU_2 -> marginal rate of substitution (MRS)
  * formal condition: MRS are equal for every consumer.
* *allocative efficiency*: P = MC (long run perfect competition).
* *productive efficiency*: P = minATC
  
= Laws =
* *law of diminishing marginal utility (short run)*: decreasing satisfaction gained from additional units of a good consumed in a given period.
* law of demand; law of supply.
* marginal cost will increase as the production expands (supply)
* law of diminishing marginal product (consider the MP curve): first increase at increasing rate, then increase at decreasing rate, then decrease.

= Demand and Supply =
*Reasons behind shift of demand curve*:<br />
*TRIBE*: *Taste* of consumers; prices of *Related* goods (substitutes and complements); *Income* of buyers; number of *Buyers*; *Expectations* for the future.<br />

*Reasons behind rightward shift of supply curve*: anything that leads to more units of the good being produced at any given price.
* decrease in input costs; improv. in tech.; expectations of lower prices in the future; increase in sellers; 
* decrease in the price of a "substitue in production" (milk & cheese)
* increase in the price of a "joint product" (leather & beef)<br />

`*` if demand and supply shift together, one of eq. price & eq. quantity will be certain, the other depends (sometimes indeterminant)

*Price Ceiling*:
* to have effect, must below eq. price
* may cause (1) queuing cost; (2) black market.

*Price Floor*:
* to have effect, must above eq. price
* Example: minimum rage; some workers benefit, others are hurt

= Costs, Production, Supply =
* Values of a large-size firm: (1) hire more experts (2) spread over fixed costs over large outputs (3) economies of scale
* Excess capacity exists whenever firms/markets don't operate at socially optimal level (P = MC).
* PPF
  - If resources are substitutable, PPF would be a straight line.
  - Straght PPF implies no specialization; Curved PPF implies specialization.

= Perfect Competition =
* In LR: P = MR = MC = min ATC; zero profits.
* In SR: only P = MR.
* When `P > AVC`, continue production. When `MR > MC`, increase production.
* MC curve is actually the firm's supply curve (representing at each price the quantity the firm is willing to supply).
* In SR: Since P = MC and if P < AVC then firm will shut down, in SR the supply curve is actually the MC curve above the AVC.
* In LR: the supply curve is actually the MC curve above the ATC.
* *Demand increase* -> firms enter -> supply increase -> *price returns to original*, quantity supplied by industry increases; whereas quantity supplied by individual firm remains the same
* Reasons that ATC is U-shaped: spreading total fixed cost over a larger output + eventually diminishing returns.

= Monopoly =
* *monopoly pricing power (control over prices; market power)*: P > MC; pricing strategy: P > MR.
* break even = zero profits = fair return price.
* socially optimal price = P = MC.
* shut-down (short-run): P < AVC. exit (long run): P < ATC.
* Reasons that price discrimination occurs:
  # control over prices
  # seperated buyers of differing price elasticities
  # can prevent re-saling among buyers
* [[comparison between monoplies]]

= Monopolistic Competition =
* [[Mono. Comp. in LR]]; LR normal profit.
* economic profit in SR.

= Oligopoly =
* Cartel model: all the firms in the industry act in unison to set a monopoly price; e.g. OPEC.

= Resource Markets with Applications to Labor =
* MFC (marginal factor cost; supply S = MFC when in perfect competition) = MRC (marginal revenue cost)
* *MRP (marginal revenue product; demand D = MRP = MP marginal product times P price) = MRC* is an analogy to *MR = MC*. If MRP > MRC, continue to hire additional units of labor.
* wage elasticity of demand (= %d(quantity demanded of labor) / %d(wage rate))
  # The higher the price elasticity of demand for the product, the higher the wage elasticity of demand.
  # The higher the proportion of labor costs relative to total costs of production, the higher will be the wage elasticity of demand.
  # The greater the number of substitute resources available and the degree to which they are substitutable, the higher will be the wage elasticity of demand.
* *perfectly competitive resource (labor) market*
  * wage rate constant
* *imperfectly competitive resource (labor) market (monopsony)*
  * compared to perfect market, wage rate and units of labor are both lowered
* cost minimization: MPP_L / MRC_L = MPP_K / MRC_K (L = labor; K = capital), or MPP_L / P_L = MPP_K / P_K in perfect competition.
* profit maximization: MRP_L / MRC_L = MRP_K / MRC_K = 1, or MRP_L / P_L = MRP_K / P_K = 1 in perfect competition.
* If price of product increase, only demand for such labor increase.

= Profit, Price =
* accounting profit: does not count opportunity cost (implicit cost); economic profit: counts.
  * i.e. economic profit = accounting profit - opportunity cost
* All types of market maximize *profits* by producing where MR = MC.
* All types of market maximize *revenue* by producing at MR = 0.

= Public Goods, Externality =
* public goods: nonrival in consumption, nonexcludability
* MSC = MEC + MPC.
* Positive externalities will improve efficiency when MC < MB.
* Pos Ext: producer produces more than socially efficient level
* Graph
------
%title Microeconomics Notes - Covi
Created Date: Apr 03, 2011 9:48:27<br />
Last Modified: May 10, 2011 18:35:03 
