= Physics =
todo: modern physics (famous experiments); go through the real multiple tests

*Electrostatics*
* [[Capacitance]]
* Two conductors, one charged and the other uncharged, have the same charge after touching if and only if they have the same size.

*Critical angle*: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Total_internal_reflection#Critical_angle 

[[Thermal Expansion]]

*Waves*
* [[on fundamental frequency]]
* transverse wave traveling towards a fixed end, a rigid object, will be reflected back on the opposite side of the string from the incident pulse. Speed, amplitude constant.
* [[doppler effect]]
* Light: electromagnetic wave, mechanical?
* longitudinal wave: sound; not easily polarized
* transverse wave: electromagnetic; can be polarized

*Thermaldynamics*
* Work done _on_ the gas: W = -P * (delta V)

*Fluids*
* In *Bernoulli's equation*, `h_1` and `h_2` are relative heights (relative to a zero height point).

*Optics*
* radius of curvature = 2f
* magnification: h_i / h_o = d_i / d_o

*Modern Physics*
* K_{max} = hf - \phi; \phi: work function of the metal surface.
* eV = K_{max}; V: stopping potential; *2005 Q7*
  * this is because the definition of 1eV is the work required to move a charge e through a potential difference V.
* energy of a particular photon: E = hf.
* momemtum of a photon: p = mv = h / lamda.
* *rest energy of a particle*: E = mc^2.
* mass defect: mass of reactants - mass of products
* In nuclear reactions:
  - If energy occurs, number of neutrons & protons is not conserved, only charge is conserved;
  - If energy does not occur, those & charge are conserved.
* beta particles: atomic number -1, atomic mass number 0.
* gamma ray: no mass.
* [[famous experiments]]
* frequency: UV > visible > IR; therefore in terms of levels of energy states, UV < visible < IR (the higher the energy states, the lower the frequencys)

*Last Minute Review*
# [[thin film interference]]
# [[electric potential]]
# [[double slit]]
# estimate focal length of a converging lens (2007 Q6): focus the image of the distant tree to a screen, and the focal length is approximately the distance between the lens and the image.
  - for the typical graph problem, sometimes we need not choose 2 points of the best-fit line. 1 point may be sufficient.

*Corrections*
* Quantum transitions that result in the characteristic sharp lines of the X-ray spectrum always involve: the inner electron shells.
----------
%title Physics - Covi
Created Date: Mar 20, 2011 18:42:49<br />
Last Modified: Apr 27, 2011 8:36:51 
