= Vim Notes & Tricks =

* [[A tricky yank task study][Dealing with Kindle's My_Clipping.txt: A tricky yank task study]].

== My Vim Plugins ==
* Pathogen. Elegant plugin manager.
* [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=39 Matchit.vim], extended % matching for HTML, LaTeX, and many other languages.
* [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1697 surround.vim], delete/change/add parentheses/quotes/xml-tags/much more with ease.
* ctags + [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=273 taglist]. Ctags is actually a standalone program, capable of generating a list of functions/variables/classes, i.e. 'tags', found in files in different languages. Taglist.vim displays the result in a vsplit (to get rid of the left-hand scroll bar when it is displayed, `:set guioptions-=L`). A list of ctags tricks [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/563616/vim-and-ctags-tips-and-tricks here].

== Basic Editting Stuff ==
* If some lines are highlighted in visual mode (checkout `visual-mode`), press `J` to join them altogether.

== Some Notes ==
* I have read some help texts, many tutorials, and tried to program some simple task. But it seems very hard to get familiar with Vim scripts (Feb 03, 2011 13:48:33)

== Substitution ==
<nowiki>:s/\(\w\+\)/`\1` # /</nowiki>
Change <nowiki>A B</nowiki> to <nowiki>`A` # B</nowiki>.<br />

== Commands ==
* Use `@:` to repeat last colon command.
* To resolve dos/unix format issues, use `:set ff=dos` and `:set ff=unix` (http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4633564/vim-mac-vs-linux-m-problem).
* File encoding issues (e.g. when Chinese characters are not properly displayed): try `:e ++enc=gbk`.

== Datestamp ==
Add<br />
    nnoremap <F5> 3wv$"=strftime("%c")<CR>P
to your `VIMRC`. Place cursor on the head of "Last Modified" line and <F5>. See [[http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Insert_current_date_or_time|also]]. 

== Linux-related ==
Use `vim-gtk` or `vim-gnome` under linux (for instance, under `vim-basic` `"+y`, or the system clipboard, will not work).<br />

-------
== Useful Links & Resouces ==
# Some tutorial videos here (http://ontwik.com/tools/vim-from-novice-to-professional-by-derek-wyatt-p1/).
# http://www.derekwyatt.org/vim/vim-tutorial-videos/vim-novice-tutorial-videos/
# http://www.derekwyatt.org/vim/vim-tutorial-videos/vim-intermediate-tutorial-videos/
# http://www.derekwyatt.org/vim/vim-tutorial-videos/vim-advanced-tutorial-videos/
# http://www.derekwyatt.org/vim/vim-tutorial-videos/vim-plugin-showcase/  
# http://www.linuxconfig.org/Vim_Tutorial 
-------
%title Vim Notes & Tricks - Covi
Last Modified: Tue 10 Jul 2012 07:50:30 PM CST
